[ty] Add blanket ignore comment rule (#26426)
astral-sh/ruff: crates/ty_python_semantic/resources/mdtest/suppressions/blanket_ignore.md

# Blanket `ty: ignore` comments

The optional `blanket-ignore-comment` rule requires `ty: ignore` comments to include specific rule
codes.

```toml
[rules]
blanket-ignore-comment = "error"
```

## Line-level ignores

```py
# error: [blanket-ignore-comment]
a = unresolved  # ty: ignore

b = unresolved  # ty: ignore[unresolved-reference]

> # Blanket `type: ignore` comments are covered by Ruff's PGH003 rule.

Reviewer: I don't think the comment here should suggest the Ruff rule as a reason we don't catch this:

```suggestion
# `blanket-ignore-comment` covers only `# ty: ignore`; we can also add `blanket-type-ignore-comment`,
# parallel to `unused-ignore-comment` and `unused-type-ignore-comment`. In the meantime, blanket
# `type: ignore` can also be caught by Ruff's PGH003 rule.
```

# Blanket `ty: ignore` comments

The optional `blanket-ignore-comment` rule requires `ty: ignore` comments to include specific rule
codes. Unused blanket comments aren't reported because they don't suppress any diagnostics; use
`unused-ignore-comment` to report them separately.

```toml
[rules]
blanket-ignore-comment = "error"
```

## Line-level ignores

```py
# error: [blanket-ignore-comment]
a = unresolved  # ty: ignore

b = unresolved  # ty: ignore[unresolved-reference]

> # Blanket `type: ignore` comments are covered by Ruff's PGH003 rule.

Reviewer: I don't think it makes sense to exclude blanket `# type: ignore` from this rule just because Ruff has a rule for it. The name of the rule "`blanket-ignore-comment`" does not suggest a distinction between blanket `ty: ignore` vs blanket `type: ignore`, and in isolation there's no reason to think a ty user would want to report one but not the other. I think it would be more intuitive and more useful to have the ty rule cover both; ty+ruff users can disable PGH003.

IMO the only reason to do this is if we want to assume that all ty users can/should use ruff. If that's really what we want to assume (I don't agree with it), then the more logical route IMO would be to not include this rule in ty at all, and add support for `# ty: ignore` detection to Ruff's PGH003.

Author: We do have precedence for this: `unused-ignore-comment` only warns about unused `ty:ignore` comments. There is `unused-type-ignore-comment` to also warn about unused `type: ignore` comments. In that sense, what's in this PR is more consistent. We could consider adding `blanked-type-ignore-comment`, which is probably useful if you didn't disable `type: ignore` comment support. But I'd probably also make it a separate rule, for consistency (which also gives us the option to not add it now and decide on this later)

Reviewer: That makes sense! I do think we should have both rules if we have one, but that can be done separately.

c = unresolved  # type: ignore
```

## Unused ignore comments

### Empty ignore comments

```py
# error: [unused-ignore-comment] "Unused `ty: ignore` without a code"
d = 1  # ty: ignore[]
```

### Blanket ignore comments

```py

> # error: [unused-ignore-comment] "Unused blanket `ty: ignore` directive"

Reviewer: So the idea is that `unused-ignore-comment` takes precedence over `blanket-ignore-comment`?

I'm not sure I see a good rationale for that. I would expect those two rules to be simple and orthogonal. This is a blanket ignore comment; if I've enabled a rule against those, I would expect that rule to fire here, regardless of whether the ignore is used or unused.

Author: The main rational was to avoid two diagnostics on the same line.

Reviewer: I don't think that this is something we should generally aim to avoid. If a single line violates two enabled rules, there should be two diagnostics on that line.

Author: I believe we are doing that in some cases. Anyway. Happy to change it. I don't think this is worth debating much. I just want the rule out, as it's something that users have been asking for.

e = 1  # ty: ignore
```

### When `unused-ignore-comment` is disabled

Unused blanket comments aren't reported by this rule, even when `unused-ignore-comment` is disabled.

> They are harmless because they don't suppress any diagnostics. Leaving all unused suppressions to

Reviewer: I don't agree with this rationale. Unused blanket ignores are IMO not "harmless" just because they are unused -- they could unexpectedly suppress an error in a future change.

Author: Not if the rule is enabled. If the comment becomes used later, the blanked ignore rule will fire. 

I'm okay changing this, I just tried to find a way to avoid two diagnostics on the same line, which also avoids some awkwardness with `--add-ignore`

`unused-ignore-comment` also keeps their treatment consistent and avoids overlapping diagnostics

> when that rule is enabled:

Reviewer: I don't think overlapping diagnostics are a problem. If I've asked ty to report unused suppressions, and I've asked it to report blanket suppressions, then emitting both diagnostics on an unused blanket suppression is the correct and expected behavior.

Author: Ultimately, it seems all your feedback comes down to this in various repeated forms of disagreements 😆

```toml
[rules]
blanket-ignore-comment = "error"
unused-ignore-comment = "ignore"
```

```py

> a = 1  # ty: ignore

Reviewer: I would be very surprised to not see a diagnostic here if I've requested `blanket-ignore-comment = "error"`. I would consider that a bug, I don't think it would even cross my mind that that could possibly be intentional behavior.
